Guide update: Self-service for iOS/iPadOS (#35767)
fleetdm/fleet: articles/software-self-service.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Pick a [Fleet-maintained app](https://fleetdm.com/guides/fleet-maintained-apps), [App store app](https://fleetdm.com/guides/install-vpp-apps-on-macos-using-fleet#add-the-app-to-fleet), or upload a [custom package](https://fleetdm.com/guides/deploy-software-packages).
```

Reviewer: Changing this because "App store" tab became a multi-platform. It supports Android apps in 4.77

1. Select the team to which you want to add the software from the dropdown in the upper left corner of the page.
2. Select **Software** in the main navigation menu.
3. Select the **Add software** button in the upper right corner of the page.

> 4. Pick a [Fleet-maintained app](https://fleetdm.com/guides/fleet-maintained-apps), [App store app](https://fleetdm.com/guides/install-vpp-apps-on-macos-using-fleet#add-the-app-to-fleet), or upload a [custom package](https://fleetdm.com/guides/deploy-software-packages).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Pick a [Fleet-maintained app](https://fleetdm.com/guides/fleet-maintained-apps), an [App Store app](https://fleetdm.com/guides/install-vpp-apps-on-macos-using-fleet#add-the-app-to-fleet), or upload a [custom package](https://fleetdm.com/guides/deploy-software-packages).
```

> 4. Pick a [Fleet-maintained app](https://fleetdm.com/guides/fleet-maintained-apps), an [App Store app](https://fleetdm.com/guides/install-vpp-apps-on-macos-using-fleet#add-the-app-to-fleet), or upload a [custom package](https://fleetdm.com/guides/deploy-software-packages).

Reviewer: I think we should rename all "App Store (VPP)" to "app store" cause now it covers both stores (Apple and Google).

> 4. Pick a [Fleet-maintained app](https://fleetdm.com/guides/fleet-maintained-apps), an [App Store app](https://fleetdm.com/guides/install-vpp-apps-on-macos-using-fleet#add-the-app-to-fleet), or upload a [custom package](https://fleetdm.com/guides/deploy-software-packages).

Author: Ah, I see, you're using "app store" to refer to both the Apple App Store and Google Play Store, is that right? Is that clear to people?

"Pick a Fleet-maintained or app store app, or upload a custom package."

> 4. Pick a [Fleet-maintained app](https://fleetdm.com/guides/fleet-maintained-apps), an [App Store app](https://fleetdm.com/guides/install-vpp-apps-on-macos-using-fleet#add-the-app-to-fleet), or upload a [custom package](https://fleetdm.com/guides/deploy-software-packages).

Reviewer 2: > "Pick a Fleet-maintained or App Store app, or upload a custom package." Because the verb in the first clause is "pick" and in the second is "upload", I think this is clearer and more succinct.

@cdcme, good call. That's much clearer. Sorry for the proper noun confusion. I assumed we were referring to the Apple App Store. I could have sworn that it was styled that way in the product at the time I suggested the change. 

For now, we should document it here as it's written in the product UI, as @marko-lisica suggests. It's beyond the scope of this PR, but I also think that "app store" for Apple and Google implies that it's Apple-only. "App stores," plural, might be clearer.

5. Check **Self-service** to make it available for self-service as soon as it's added.

You can also add the software and later make it available in self-service:

1. Select the team to which you added the software from the dropdown in the upper left corner of the page.
2. Select **Software** in the main navigation menu.
3. Select the **All software** dropdown and choose **Available for install.** This filters the results in the table to show only software that can be installed on hosts. If you don’t see your software, page through the results or search for your software's name in the search bar. Once you find the software, select its title.

> 4. Select the pencil (edit) icon and check **Self-service** in the **Options** section. You can also assign categories and add a custom icon. Icons appear on the **My device > Self-service** page. Custom icons are only available for [custom packages](https://fleetdm.com/guides/deploy-software-packages) and [App Store apps](https://fleetdm.com/guides/install-vpp-apps-on-macos-using-fleet).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select the pencil (edit) icon and check **Self-service** in the **Options** section. You can also assign categories and add a custom icon. Icons appear on the **My device > Self-service** page. Custom icons are only available for [custom packages](https://fleetdm.com/guides/deploy-software-packages) and [app store apps](https://fleetdm.com/guides/install-vpp-apps-on-macos-using-fleet).
```

> 4. Select the pencil (edit) icon and check **Self-service** in the **Options** section. You can also assign categories and add a custom icon to your software to customize the end user experience on the **My device > Self-service** page. Custom icons are only available for [custom packages](https://fleetdm.com/guides/deploy-software-packages) and [App store apps](https://fleetdm.com/guides/install-vpp-apps-on-macos-using-fleet).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Select the pencil (edit) icon and check **Self-service** in the **Options** section. You can also assign categories and add a custom icon. Icons appear on the **My device > Self-service** page. Custom icons are only available for [custom packages](https://fleetdm.com/guides/deploy-software-packages) and [App Store apps](https://fleetdm.com/guides/install-vpp-apps-on-macos-using-fleet).
```

## iOS and iPadOS setup

To enable self-service software on iOS and iPadOS devices, you need to deploy a configuration profile that creates a home screen app icon. When users tap this icon, they access the self-service software catalog without needing to manually authenticate.

### Prerequisites

- Safari must be installed and not restricted on devices.
- Your Fleet server must support client certificate authentication.

> **Note:** Self-service for iOS and iPadOS is not supported on Render-hosted Fleet deployments. Render automatically terminates HTTPS connections, which prevents the certificate authentication required for iOS/iPadOS devices.

### Deploy the configuration profile

Fleet provides a configuration profile that creates a "My Device" icon on iOS/iPadOS home screens. This profile uses the device's Fleet Identity certificate for automatic authentication.

[Learn how to deploy self-service to iOS and iPadOS](https://fleetdm.com/learn-more-about/deploy-self-service-to-ios)

The configuration profile:
- Creates a non-removable home screen icon
- Opens in full-screen mode
- Automatically authenticates using the device's enrollment certificate

> - Uses Fleet's `$FLEET_VAR_HOST_UUID` variable for easy deployment to multiple devices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prerequisites

- Safari must be installed on the host.
- Infrastructure: load balancers must forward client certificate information to the server via request headers. Fleet [best practice hosting](https://fleetdm.com/docs/deploy/deploy-fleet) methods do this by default.

> **Note:** Self‑service won’t work on Fleet deployments hosted on Render. Render terminates HTTPS connections itself, so the server can’t receive the device certificate information needed to authenticate users.

### Create the self-service configuration profile

On your Mac, open [iMazing Profile Editor](https://imazing.com/profile-editor). Create a new profile and add a **Web Clip** payload with these settings:

#### Under the **General** tab:

- **Name**: Friendly name like "iOS self-service".
- **Identifier and UUID**: You can use default values.

#### Under the **Web Clip** tab:

- **Label**: This name will display as the app name on the home screen. Recommended name: "Self-service".
- **URL**: `<your_server_url>/device/$FLEET_VAR_HOST_UUID/self-service`
- **Removable**: Uncheck it.
- **Icon**: Upload a square icon that will be displayed as the app icon on the home screen.
- **Full Screen:** Check this field, and **Ignore Web Clip manifest scope**.
- **Target Application Bundle Identifier:** Select **Choose...**, type "safari" in search box, and select **Safari - com.apple.mobilesafari** 
```
